Larmer Hamilton said I want to be getting hammered and excuse me.
Hi guys and welcome back to new tutorial in the course robot operating system basics motion and open
city.
So so far we have covered a lot of different concepts including those basics like the Russified system.
Those topics are snowdrops messages are services and different things.
Then we have talked about motion and how to make a robot move.
What are the different topics that are responsible for making a move and other topics that are responsible
for finding the location of the robot.
Of course we have applied this on some simulator and in future lectures you're going to talk about more
realistic robots and then in the third part we have talked about up and see which is about robotic perception.
So today I'm going to talk about a new tutorial how laser scanners or laser rangefinders work and this
is actually another way of robotic perception.
So the robot can actually see the work using a camera.
And for these we use tools like oppositely in order to process the images and video streams coming from
the camera and extract useful information from that.
But the problem the camera up on provide us today matching that information on the picture and a picture
doesn't say anything about for example the distance of obstacles or the distance of objects from that
orbit and for this we need a third dimension which is actually obtained using a specific device like
rangefinders or we call them also a laser scanner.
And these devices are able to find the distance to objects and they are taking much useful in several
types of applications.
So let's see how these laser scanners work.
So what is a laser scanner.
Basically it is a device that can measure the distance to obstacles.
And there are several devices not only based on laser they are also intra sonic sensors which are based
on sound not to determine the distance to obstacles but laser scanners or laser rings find those are
based on a laser to detect the distance the obstacles.
So how do they work.
Actually a device like the following is going to send a laser beam in different directions and then
displays that are going to bounce back when they hit an obstacle.
And there are going to be captured by a camera.
So knowing the offset between the laser source and the camera it is possible to estimate using that
type of flight because the laser travels at the speed of light.
It's possible to estimate using type of light the distance to the objects and these devices are actually
very useful in several robotics applications for example.
They are used in some application for building a map and some it means simultaneous localization and
mapping.
They are also used for obstacle avoidance without lasers.
The robot cannot know the distance to obstacles and in this case it can easily be an obstacle that comes
in his path.
So for example when we worked with the turtle sea we just used kind of bland that we didn't consider
any obstacle.
This is not realistic orbit when it operate in an environment.
It will have to manage how to avoid obstacles in his path.
And for this we need rangefinders like laser scanners or ultrasonic sensors.
And for this reason laser scans are crucial and important and necessary for any navigation mission of
the job.
So that's why the objective of this section is to understand how the laser scanner works how we can
connect a laser scanner to Russ how we can read the information come coming from the laser scanner.
What are the medical information or the meta data of the laser scanner.
All of these are going to be described in these coming lectures.